.TH OpenTabletDriver 8 2024-12-14 "OpenTabletDriver v0.6.5.0" "Quick Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
opentabletdriver, otd, otd-gui, otd-daemon \- User mode FOSS tablet driver

.SY
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B otd
.RB [OPTIONS...]

.B otd-gui
.RB [OPTIONS...]

.B otd-daemon
.RB [OPTIONS...]

.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION

OpenTabletDriver is a cross platform, open source, user mode graphics
tablet driver aiming for the highest compatibility in an easily
configurable graphical user interface.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS Daemon Options (otd-daemon)

.OP "-a, --appdata <directory>"

Manually specify application data directory, defaults to
~/.config/OpenTabletDriver/

.OP "-c, --config <directory>"

Manually specify configuration directory (location of JSON files used
to recognize tablets)

.OP "--version"

Show version information

.OP "-?, -h, --help"

Show help and usage information

.SS Graphical Front-end Options (otd-gui)

.OP "-m, --minimized"

Start OpenTabletDriver minimized, if possible in the desktop environment installed

.OP "--version"

Show version information

.OP "-?, -h, --help"

Show help and usage information for the GUI

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The daemon log is created in the application data directory, which by default is located at

.RS
.EX
~/.config/OpenTabletDriver/Logs/
.EE
.RE

The file format is almost JSON, with an end-of-array marker missing.

This can be alleviated by appending a square bracket end ']' to the end of the file.

.SH FREQUENT ISSUES AND QUESTIONS

.SS Failed to open device streams

This occurs due to a lack of permissions to open a device stream. It
is resolved by creating udev rules that give these permissions. If you
installed OpenTabletDriver via your package manager, you may need to
run the following command, and then replug your tablet.

.RS
.EX
sudo udevadm control --reload-rules
.EE
.RE

.SS Poor performance with NVIDIA

Disable "Force full composition pipeline" in the NVIDIA settings panel.

.SS Failed to initialize virtual device

The virtual device uses the
.B uinput
kernel module to create a virtual tablet.
Common errors and their solution are provided below:

.B EACCESS
.RS

The udev rules have been installed incorrectly.
If you are using an official OpenTabletDriver package, this is a bug and should
be reported.

The udev rules need to be located in one of the following directories:

.RS
.EX
/etc/udev/rules.d/
/usr/lib/udev/rules.d/
.EE
.RE

and the file name must end with
.B .rules

Also see:
.MR udev 7

.RE
.B ENODEV
.RS

Most modern Linux distributions have uinput enabled, so this is usually caused
by a missing reboot after a kernel update (and therefore no modules available
to load), before uinput was loaded.

.B If you have a custom compiled kernel,
ensure that your kernel configuration includes the following as either 'y'
(built-in) or 'm' (as module):

.RS
.EX
CONFIG_INPUT_UINPUT
.EE
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.SS DISPLAY

The X11 display to use

.SS WAYLAND_DISPLAY

The Wayland display to use.

If both
.I WAYLAND_DISPLAY
and
.I DISPLAY
is set,
.I WAYLAND_DISPLAY
takes priority.

.SH FILES

.SS bin/otd-daemon

The OpenTabletDriver driver daemon.
.B This must be running at all times to provide a working tablet.

.SS bin/otd-gui

The graphical user interface for interacting with the daemon

.SS bin/otd

The command-line interface for interacting with the daemon. The command line
interface is provided as-is.

.SS ~/.config/OpenTabletDriver/settings.json
The settings file used by the daemon

.SH NOTES

This manpage is \fBnot\fR autogenerated. Therefore the information provided within
this man page may be out of date. We refer to OpenTabletDriver's website which
has an up to date FAQ and other instructions.

.SH BUGS

.SS Unreliable autostart with systemd

The systemd user service provided with OpenTabletDriver depends on a
functioning
.I graphical-session.target
systemd user unit.

If the target isn't initialized at the correct time, the OpenTabletDriver
daemon can start before the environment variables are ready, resulting in the
daemon crashing because it could not grab the correct display information.

If you have this issue, a workaround is to put
.I otd-daemon
in your desktop environments autostart. However, you lose the crash handling
provided by systemd.

Some Linux distributions expect you to fix the target yourself.

.SH SEE ALSO

OpenTabletDriver website:
.UR https://www.opentabletdriver.net/
.UE
